Imagine that the natural sciences were to suffer the effects of a catastrophe.  A series of environmental disasters are blamed by the general public on the scientists.  Widespread riots occur, laboratories are burnt down, physicists are lynched, books and instruments are destroyed.  Finally a Know-Nothing political movement takes power and successfully abolishes science teaching in schools and universities, imprisoning and executing the remaining scientists.  Later still there is a reaction against this destructive movement and enlightened people seek to revive science, although



knowledge of experiments detached from any knowledge of the theoretical
context which gave them significance; parts of theories unrelated either to
the other bits and pieces of theory which they possess or to experiment;
instruments whose use has been forgotten; half-chapters from books, single
pages from articles, not always fully legible because torn and charred.
Nonetheless all these fragments are reembodied in a set of practices which
go under the revived names of physics, chemistry and biology. Adults
argue with each other about the respective merits of relativity theory,
evolutionary theory and phlogiston theory, although they possess only a
very partial knowledge of each. Children learn by heart the surviving por-
tions of the periodic table and recite as incantations some of the theorems
of Euclid. Nobody, or almost nobody, realizes that what they are doing
is not natural science in any proper sense at all. For everything that they
do and say conforms to certain canons of consistency and coherence and
those contexts which would be needed to make sense of what they are do-
ing have been lost, perhaps irretrievably. HEN ee A
— In such a culture men would use expressions such as gr hi 1
‘specific gravity’, ‘atomic weight’ in systematic and often Lhe ii : Ke
which would resemble in lesser or greater degrees the ways in

I 1 1 1 i d ( had

been so largely lost. But many of t LT ies

hese expressions would have been od 1 LE Eh
iin d even of choice In ;

fn laninines o us. What would appear to be rival and

surprising t ) : uld
a fa hich no further argument could be given WO

